# Building and Analyzing a Near-Real-Time Data Warehouse Prototype for METRO Shopping Store in Pakistan

# Course

DS3003 Data Warehousing and Business Intellligence

# Description

METRO is one of the biggest superstores chains in Pakistan. The stores has thousands of customers and therefore it is important for the store to online analyse the shopping behaviour of their customers. Based on that the store can optimise their selling strategies e.g. giving promotions on different products. Now, to make this analysis of shopping behaviour practical there is a need of building a near-realtime DW and customers’ transactions from Data Sources (DSs) are required to reflect into DW as soon as they appear in DSs. To build a nearreal-time DW we need to implement a near-real-time ETL (Extraction, Transformation, and Loading) tools. Since the data generated by customers is incomplete as it required by DW, it needs to complete in the transformation layer of ETL. To implement this enrichment feature in the transformation phase of ETL we need a StreamRelation join operator. There are a number of algorithms available to implement this join operation however, the seminal one is MESHJOIN (Mesh Join) which is explained in next section and you will implement its extended version in this project using Java with Eclipse IDE. The MESHJOIN (Mesh Join) algorithm has been introduced by Polyzotis in 2008 with objective of implementing the Stream- Relation join operation in the transformation phase of ETL. <br />

# Tasks
Following is list of tasks that you need to complete in this project. <br />
1. Identifying appropriate dimension tables, fact table, and their attributes for the sales scenario presented in Figure 2. Based on that create a star-schema for DW with appropriate primary and foreign keys. <br />
2. Implementing the MESHJOIN algorithm (using steps described in Section 6) in Java for successfully loading transactional data into DW after joining it with MD. <br />
3. Applying of different analysis (described in Section 7) on DW using slicing, dicing, drill down, and materialising view concepts. <br />
4. Writing a project report that should include project overview, schema for DW, MESHJOIN algorithm, any three shortcomings in Mesh Join, and what did you learn from the project? <br />

# File Description


# Languages

1. Java
2. MySQL 

# Note

The Description.pdf contains the detailed description of this repository.
